Build a Website with Remix and Directus SDK (#60)
directus-community/guest-authoring: directus-remix/index.md

---
title: 'Build a Website With Remix and the Directus JavaScript SDK'
description: 'A starter guide on how to build a website using Remix framework and Directus as a headless CMS'
author:
  name: 'Trust Jamin'
  avatar_file_name: 'jamin.png'
---

## Introduction

> [Remix](https://remix.run/) is a React.js framework that  helps you deliver websites that are fast, slick, and have resilient user experience. In this tutorial, you will learn how to build a website using Directus as a headless CMS. You will store, retrieve, and use global metadata such as the site title, create new pages dynamically based on Directus items, and build a blog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Remix](https://remix.run/) is a React.js framework that provides many conveniences useful when building websites. In this tutorial, you will learn how to build a website using Directus as a Headless CMS. You will store, retrieve, and use global metadata such as the site title, create new pages dynamically based on Directus items, and build a blog.
```

This suggestion removes overpromoting or selling Remix and just explains what it is plainly.

## Before You Start

You will need:

- To install [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en/) and a code editor on your computer.
- A Directus project - you can use [Directus Cloud](https://directus.cloud/) or [run it yourself](https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart.html).

> - Some knowledge of TypeScript and React

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Some knowledge of TypeScript and React.
```

## Initialize Remix and Install the Directus SDK

Open your terminal to run the following command to create a new Remix project:

```bash

> npx create-remix@latest

Reviewer: Please pin to a version so this post doesn't fall out of date immediately.

```

During installation, when prompted, choose the following configurations:

```bash
Where should we create your new project? ./remix-directus
Initialize a new git repository? Choose the choice that suits your need
Install dependencies? Yes
Do you plan to write TypeScript? Yes

```

> Once completed, navigate into the new directory and delete all the contents in the `app/routes/_index.tsx` file so you can build the project from scratch and install the Directus JavaScript SDK:
> 
> ```bash
> cd remix-directus
> npm i @directus/sdk
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once initialized, open the directory in a code editor and delete all the contents in the `app/routes/_index.tsx` file.
```

Open the `remix-directus` directory in a text editor of your choice and run `npm run dev` in the terminal to start the development server at `http://localhost:3000`.

> ## Create a Helper for the SDK

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a Directus SDK Helper
```

> 

Reviewer: Install the SDK here.

  title: string;
  content: string;
  slug: string;
}
type Post = {
  image: string;
  title: string;
  author: Author;
  content: string;
  published_date: string
  slug: string;
}

type Schema = {
  posts: Post[];
  global: Global;
  pages: Page[];
}

const directus = createDirectus<Schema>(YOUR_DIRECTUS_URL).with(rest());

export default directus;

```

Ensure your Directus URL is correct when initializing the Directus JavaScript SDK.

## Using Global Metadata and Settings

In your Directus project, navigate to Settings -> Data Model and create a new collection called `global`. Under the Singleton option, select 'Treat as a single object', as this collection will have just a single entry containing global website metadata.

Create two text input fields - one with the key of `title` and one `description`.

Navigate to the content module and enter the global collection. Collections will generally display a list of items, but as a singleton, it will launch directly into the one-item form. Enter information in the title and description field and hit save.

 ![A form named "Global" has two inputs - a title and a description, each filled with some text.](global-data.png)

>  By default, new collections are not accessible to the public. Navigate to Settings -> Roles & Permissions -> Public and give Read access to the Global collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 By default, new collections are not accessible to the public. Navigate to Settings -> Access Control -> Public and give Read access to the Global collection.
```

 In your `app/routes/_index.tsx` file, add the following to fetch the data from Directus and display it:

```tsx
import directus from "../lib/directus";
import { readSingleton } from "@directus/sdk";
import { useLoaderData } from "@remix-run/react";

export const loader = async () => {
  const global = await directus.request(readSingleton("global"));
  return global
};

export default function Index() {
  const { title, description } = useLoaderData< typeof loader>();
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>{title}</h1>
      <p>{description}</p>
    </div>
  );
}

```

Refresh your browser. You should see the data from your Directus Global collection displayed in the homepage.

## Creating Pages With Directus

### Set up Directus

Create a new collection called `pages` - make the Primary ID Field a "Manually Entered String" called `slug`, which will correlate with the URL for the page. For example `about` will later correlate to the page `localhost:3000/about`.

> Create a text input field called `title` and a WYSIWYG input field called `content`. In Roles & Permissions, give the Public role read access to the new collection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create a text input field called `title` and a WYSIWYG input field called `content`. In the Access Control settings, give the Public role read access to the new collection.
```

Create some items in the new collection

> ### Setup Dynamic Routes in Astro

Reviewer: I know you're dong a few of these, but please take some time to ensure copy/paste work is then adjusted appropriately!

Go to `http://localhost:3000/about`, replacing `about` with any of your item slugs. Using the Directus JavaScript SDK, the item with that slug is retrieved, and the page should show your data.

```
:::warning 404s and Trusted Content
Non-existing slugs will result in a 404 error. Additionally,
`dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{ __html: content }}` should only be used for trusted content.

:::
```

## Creating Blog Posts With Directus

Create a new collection called `authors` with a single text input field called `name`. Create one or more authors.

Then, create a new collection called `posts` - make the Primary ID Field a "Manually Entered String" called   , which will correlate with the URL for the page. For example `hello-world` will later correlate to the page `localhost:3000/blog/hello-world`.

Create the following fields in your `posts` data model:

- a text input field called `title`
- a WYSIWYG input field called `content`
- an image relational field called `image`
- a datetime selection field called `published_date` - set the type to 'date'
- a many-to-one relational field called `author` with the related collection set to `authors`

> In Roles & Permissions, give the Public role read access to the `authors`, `posts`, and `directus_files` collections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the Access Control settings, give the Public role read access to the `authors`, `posts`, and `directus_files` collections.
```

Create some items in the posts collection - here's some sample data.

### Create Blog Post Listing

In Remix route file convention, `.` will create a `/` in the URL.
Inside of the `app/routes` directory, create a new file called `blog._index.tsx` with the content:

```tsx
import directus from "~/lib/directus";
import { readItems } from "@directus/sdk";
import { useLoaderData } from "@remix-run/react";

export const loader = async () => {
  const posts = await directus.request(
    readItems("posts", {
      fields: ["slug", "title", "published_date", { author: ["name"] }],
      sort: ["-published_date"],
    })
  );
  return { posts };
};

```

This query will retrieve the first 100 items (default), sorted by published date (descending order, which is latest first). It will only return the specific fields we request - `slug`, `title`, `published_date`, and the `name` from the related `author` item.

> Display the fetched data in HTML:

Reviewer: It's not clear which file this code should be put in - make it clear it's at the bottom of the same file

import { useLoaderData } from "@remix-run/react";

export const loader = async ({ params }: LoaderFunctionArgs) => {
  const { slug } = params;
  const post = await directus.request(readItem("posts", slug as string));
  return post;
};

export default function Post() {
  const { image, title, content } = useLoaderData<typeof loader>();
  return (
    <div>
      <img src={`${directus.url}assets/${image}?width=600`} alt="" />
      <h1>{title}</h1>
      <div dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{ __html: content }}></div>
    </div>
  );
}

```

Some key notes about this code snippet.

- The `width` attribute demonstrates Directus' built-in image transformations.
- Once again, `dangerouslySetInnerHTML={{ __html: content }}` should only be used if all content is trusted.
- Because almost-all fields are used in this page, including those from the image relational field, the `fields` property when using the Directus JavaScript SDK can be set to `*.*`.

Click on any of the blog post links, and it will take you to a blog post page complete with a header image.

![A blog post page shows an image, a title, and a number of paragraphs.](blog-single.png)

## Add Navigation

> While not strictly Directus-related, there are now several pages that aren't linked to each other. Update the `Layout.astro` file to include a navigation. Don't forget to use your specific page slugs.

Reviewer: Again, this says Astro. Copying and pasting is a convenience but has to come with the due diligence that work is updated for a specific use case.
